---
title: "Colder Freeze-in Axinos Decaying into Photons"
collection: publ_journals
permalink: /publication/2018-1-axino1
# note: 'To appear'
# acceptance: 'Acceptance rate: 1349/9020 (15.0%)'
# rankGGS: 'GGS 2021: A++'
date: 2018-01-01
venue: 'Physical Review D (PRD)'
pubtype: 'journals'
authors: ' 
Kyu Jung Bae, Ayuki Kamada,
Seng Pei Liew
,
Keisuke Yanagi'
---
Abstract
 <br> 
We point out that 7 keV axino dark matter (DM) in the R-parity violating (RPV) supersymmetric (SUSY) Dine-Fischler-Srednicki-Zhitnitsky axion model can simultaneously reproduce the 3.5 keV x-ray line excess and evade stringent constraints from the Ly−α forest data. Peccei-Quinn symmetry breaking naturally generates both the TeV-scale μ term and the MeV-scale RPV term. The RPV term introduces a tiny axino-neutrino mixing and provides axino DM as a variant of the sterile neutrino DM explaining the 3.5 keV x-ray line excess. Axinos are produced by freeze-in processes via the μ term. The resultant phase space distribution tends to be colder than the Fermi-Dirac distribution. The inherent entropy production from late-time saxion decay makes axinos even colder than those without saxion decay. The resultant axino DM takes the correct relic density and is compatible even with the latest and strongest constraint from the Ly-α forest data.
 <br> 

 [[Link](https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.97.055019){:target="_blank"}][[BibTeX](/files/bibtex/bae2018axino1.bib){:target="_blank"}] 
<pre> @article{Bae:2017tqn,
    author = "Bae, Kyu Jung and Kamada, Ayuki and Liew, Seng Pei and Yanagi, Keisuke",
    title = "{Colder Freeze-in Axinos Decaying into Photons}",
    eprint = "1707.02077",
    archivePrefix = "arXiv",
    primaryClass = "hep-ph",
    reportNumber = "CTPU-17-24, UT-17-24",
    doi = "10.1103/PhysRevD.97.055019",
    journal = "Phys. Rev. D",
    volume = "97",
    number = "5",
    pages = "055019",
    year = "2018"
} </pre>


